.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Version $Revision: 1.2 $ from $Date: 2002/09/15 07:00:41 $
.\"
.TH C2HS 1 "November 2007" "Version 0.15.1" C\->Haskell
.SH NAME
c2hs \- C->Haskell Interface Generator

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B c2hs
.RB [ OPTIONS ]...
.I header-file
.I binding-file

.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page briefly describes the
.B c2hs
command.  For more details, refer to the main documentation, which is
available in various other formats, including SGML and HTML; see below.
.PP

.SH OPTIONS
The programs follow the usual GNU command line syntax, with long options
starting with two dashes (`-'). A summary of options are included below. For
a complete description, see the other documentation.

.B c2hs
accepts the following options:
.TP
.B  \-h, \-?, \-\-help
brief help
.TP
.B  \-v, \-\-version
show version information
.TP
.B  \-\-numeric\-version
show version number
.TP
.BI \-c \ CPP\fR, \ \-\-cpp= CPP
use executable \fICPP\fR to invoke C preprocessor
.TP
.BR \-C \ CPPOPTS\fR, \ \-\-cppopts= CPPOPTS
pass CPPOPTS to the C preprocessor
.TP
.BI \-o \ FILE\fR, \ \-\-output= FILE
output result to \fIFILE\fR (should end in \fI.hs\fR)
.TP
.BI \-t \ PATH\fR, \ \-\-output\-dir= PATH
place generated files in PATH
.TP
.B  \-p \ PLATFORM, \-\-platform=PLATFORM
platform to use for cross compilation
.TP
.B  \-k, \-\-keep
keep pre-processed C header
.TP
.B  \-l, \-\-copy\-library
copy `C2HS' library module to the current directory
.TP
.BR \-d \ TYPE\fR, \ \-\-dump= TYPE
dump internal information (for debugging), where TYPE is one of:
.RS
.IP "\(bu \fBtrace\fR" 10
trace compiler phases
.IP "\(bu \fBgenbind\fR"   10
trace binding generation
.IP "\(bu \fBctrav\fR"   10
trace C declaration traversal
.IP "\(bu \fBchs\fR"   10
dump the binding file (adds \fI.dump\fR to the name)
.RE
.PP

.I header-file
is the header file belonging to the marshalled library. It must end with
suffix 
.IR .h .

.I binding-file
is the corresponding Haskell binding file, which must end with suffix
.IR .chs .

.I PLATFORM
The platform name can be one of:
.IR x86_64-linux .
.IR i686-linux .
.IR m68k-palmos .
This allows for cross-compilation, assuming the rest of your toolchain supports
that. The default is the current host platform.

The most useful of these options is probably 
.B  \-\-cppopts
(or 
.BR \-C ).
If the C header file needs any special options (like \-D or \-I) to go
through the C pre-processor, here is the place to pass them.

.SH EXAMPLES

The easiest way to use the C->Haskell Interface Generator is via
.I Cabal.
Cabal knows about 
.I .chs
files and will run
.B c2hs
automatically, passing the appropriate flags.

When used directly, 
.Bc2hs
is usually called as:

.B c2hs
.I lib.h Lib.chs

where 
.I  lib.h
is the header file and
.I  Lib.chs
the Haskell binding module, which define the C- and Haskell-side interface,
respectively.  If no errors occur, the result is a pure Haskell module
.IR Lib.hs ,
which implements the Haskell API of the library.

A more advanced call may look like this:

.BR "c2hs" \ \-\-cppopts=\-I\fI/some/obscure/dir\fR
\-\-cppopts=\-DEXTRA
.I lib.h Lib.chs

Often, 
.I  lib.h
will not be in the current directory, but in one of the header file
directories.  Apart from the current directory, C->Haskell looks in two
places for the header: first, in the standard include directory of the used
system, this is usually
.IR /usr/include " and " /usr/local/include ;
and second, it will look in every directory that is mentioned in a 
.RI \-I DIR
option passed to the pre-processor via 
.BR \-\-cppopts .

.SH CAVEATS
If you have more than one option that you want to
give to the pre-processor, use multiple
.BR \-\-cppopts= \ flags.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

User guide
.I /usr/share/doc/c2hs-0.15.1/html/c2hs.html

Home page
.I http://www.cse.unsw.edu.au/~chak/haskell/c2hs/

.SH "BUGS"

Please report bugs and feature requests in the c2hs trac

.I http://hackage.haskell.org/trac/c2hs/

or to the C->Haskell mailing list
.I c2hs@haskell.org

.SH COPYRIGHT
C->Haskell Version 0.15.1 Copyright (c) [1999..2007]
Manuel M. T. Chakravarty <chak@cse.unsw.edu.au>

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was mainly assembled from the original documentation.

It was written by Michael Weber <michael.weber@post.rwth-aachen.de> for the
Debian GNU/Linux system (but may be used by others).
